---
layout: post
title: The Long Way Home
---

## A Brief Introduction

The following post is about a particularly long day for me. As this is my first post, I am still not sure what this blog is going to be about. It may, like this post, just be me letting off steam and telling personal stories. I also have a mind to try short stories and more article-type blog posts. We’ll see where it goes. God knows I need a creative outlet because my friends are tired of hearing my stories. So I guess it’s time to tell it to the Internet (capitalized, like God).

Necessary background: In the summer of 2017, when I wrote this post, I worked as an intern at Microsoft in Cambridge, MA. That was my first major job as a software developer, and boy did I suck at it. I persevered and got better and actually started coming into my own by the end. This happened to me squarely in the middle of the internship, however. It was probably the longest day of the summer, and so many things went wrong that I thought it made for a cheeky blog post. Hope you (if anyone is reading this) enjoy!

<!--excerpt-->

## How Not to Go to the Airport

They say that the path to Hell is paved with good intentions. I say that asphalt would probably be a better source material. Indeed, the road beneath the car in which I sat definitely made a good path from our hotel to Seattle’s Sea-Tac airport. It’s too bad that the road was being traversed at 6 am despite everyone in the car having domestic flights that all left at approximately 10 am. Some people like to be on the safe side, I suppose. I was quite opposed to leaving that early-and for good reason. I started to pave my path to Hell almost as soon as I woke up that day.

I tiptoed out of bed and, stumbling in the dark, tripped over the X-box that had just been bequeathed to me. This X-box was a gift from my patron. I am currently interning for Microsoft in Boston. The company is, however, headquartered near Seattle and is quite fond of doing a large intern-appreciation/please-work-full-time-for-us party called the Signature Event. I, and all the other Boston-based interns, were consequently flown out to Seattle for a sleepless (sorry for pun, there are many more to come, though) week where, after a surprisingly lit and dehydrating concert featuring the Chainsmokers, we were given an X-Box. I am aware of how ludicrous this entire paragraph has been and will thusly end it.

During that week, I had the pleasure of rooming with my then boyfriend/ summer co-worker (a story for another time). I had to get ready for leaving for the airport and kept the blinds closed tight and the lights off so as to not disturb him. What a mistake. I was still residual dehydrated from the concert two days before and a day in the sun that had only ended hours ago. On top of that, I was basically still asleep. Result: I left my wallet (and later, I would find out, my Microsoft badge, my glasses, and a Van Gogh-esque illustration of the Seattle skyline I had bought from a friendly man selling his mother’s art in the Seattle market).

The realization of my faux pas happened when I, for some reason, became acutely aware of my butt. More specifically, I realized that my posterior did not feel the familiar pressure of my wallet protruding into my backside whenever I sit. Sheepishly, I ask, “Hey, guys. Can we go back to the hotel?”
“Why?” responds the driver, a haughty but heartfelt South African on my team currently doing his best impression of a frazzled father. “I left my wallet,” I say with a tilt of the head and a shrug of the shoulders.

They debate whether they have time to do this. I say we are four hours early. They retort that they have to leave the rental car behind. I explain that there is no way this takes several hours. They oblige my request. I then have to phone my boyfriend at about 6:30 am, wake him from his slumber and urge him to open the door so I can get my wallet. Because I did not want to disturb him, I ended up disturbing him. Now, if this was the only mild misstep that day, I would not write about it. No, there were many more missteps to come that day.

## An X-Box and a Pat Down

“Don’t worry about bringing your X-Box with you on the plane. The people at the airport are familiar with Microsoft and their propensity for gift giving,” advised my manager when I asked him about carrying an unopened X-Box on the plane. I suppose, in general, he was correct. Nobody had any trouble getting their X-Box past security. Except for me. The TSA found it necessary to open the X-Box box and very thoroughly pat me down.
“Why?” I asked. “We need to check it for explosives. Do you understand that?” “Semantically, I do,” I thought, but “Yes,” I mumbled out. It’s generally better not to sass the TSA, I would imagine, so I kept my one-liner to myself.

They proceeded to get a knife and open up the box. They take out the contraption and study it for explosive residue. I feel like I am witnessing a scene from CSI. The lady looks it up and down and runs a cotton swab throughout the machine. While she’s busy with that, another guard proceeds to come pat me down.
He asks me if I want a private room. I say no for a quasi-political reason. Much of their tactics always felt a bit like security theater to me. As such, I want people to see what pat downs entail and how invasive and probably unnecessary they are. I had already passed their pervy X-ray machine and was deemed to be no threat, so why manhandle me to boot? “Because explosives, do you understand that?” they would probably respond.

I had never been subjected to the full pat down. It surprised me the level to which it made me feel degraded. The gloved hands of the TSA officer started over my collar, swept past the T I was forming with my arms with a machine-like rhythm. A similar motion sent kinetic waves through my torso. I resented every single one. He warned me before he touched my intimate areas and made note of the fact that he was doing so with only the back of his hand. It really didn’t make much of a difference to me.

At one point, he asks, “Are you sure you don’t have a piece of paper or something in your pocket?” “No, that is the lining of my pocket meeting the leg of my underwear,” I respond, using all the patience I can muster to not sound aggressive. Meanwhile, a family stops to watch my pat down and I am acutely aware of every inch of my body. For some reason, I am almost to the point of tears when he finishes. His head snaps backwards afterwards and looks at the “One month free Battlefield access,” promoted on the box they just deemed a potential explosive. “Battlefield is a dope game,” he says with a smile. “Yeah,” is all I manage to say. I know this man was just doing his job, but he had just manhandled me. I was in no condition to make banter about the dopeness or lack thereof of a video game. I felt very defeated then. It wasn’t just the invasiveness of the situation, but this sneaking suspicion that I was singled out for some less than reasonable reason.

I would later ask another Microsoft intern on my same flight if they had any trouble getting through security. They didn’t. They walked right through. Now, perhaps it has something to do with the fact that he was white and I am Latino. Perhaps it doesn’t. Another Latina co-worker got through just fine. But that still means that it was not necessary to do that to me. No one else had this problem. Perhaps it was my bad for sporting quite a tan that day. Perhaps they were following some kind of arbitrary protocol and something about me seemed more suspicious than my other co-workers. I could only speculate.
And boy, did I have time to speculate! Even with going back to the hotel and having a distasteful detour through the security gate, I was still two hours before boarding started!

## Matters of the Middle Seat

I proceeded to walk throughout the airport because I would spend nine hours of that day unable extend my legs. I had the misfortune of being put in the middle seat of two flights. My friends had direct flights, but I had a layover in Dallas that added three hours to my journey. That day, I came to learn just how much I hate the middle seat.

There are pros and cons of the aisle and the window. The latter has a view. The former has ready access to the bathroom. The middle seat has neither. The middle is the worst of both worlds. The middle means having to inconvenience someone to go to the bathroom and not being able to see out the window. The middle means having two elbows delimiting where your elbows can go. The middle sucks, basically. The middle also makes it necessary for you to have to interact with at least two people.

Now, I’m not saying that talking to people and making connections is bad, but it is exhausting. Occasionally, you will meet awesome people and you two will have a great conversation over something that is not the weather. Most of the times, though, you will have a conversation about the weather. There has never been a great conversation where the main topic was the weather. Two pe0ple the row in front of mine were having a surprisingly decent conversation about disbursements. “We went paperless in 2001,” the lady boasted. “Wow, we didn’t do that until ‘05,” the man conceded, impressed. I like to believe they made passionate love later.

I was not having such steamy conversation. I was trying to learn how to make a blog. If you’re seeing this entry I suppose I succeeded. One woman did eventually make conversation with me, however. Let’s call her Susan. She was a middle-aged, thin-framed woman with fiery hair that matched her stinging manner of speaking.

“Oh, shit!” spat out Susan, “They changed my flight to 1 am. I can’t do that. I’m an anesthesiologist. I have people to anesthetize!” “That sucks, ma’am,” I manage to say. I looked for things to tell her to perhaps make her feel better. “My flight starts boarding in 10 minutes and we have been stalled here for like 15 minutes.” “You’ll be fine!,” she assures me, “You can just do the OJ through the airport.” “Murder someone and flee the police in a high speed chase?” “Oh no! You’re too young to remember, but he had a commercial in the ’70s where he ran through the airport and jumped over a lot of obstacles.” “Huh, I only know him for the murder stuff,” I said. “Right, that was so long ago, but I remember when that happened. I was living out there when he killed her, you know”. “No, I did not,” I thought but did not say. “That happened they year I was born actually.” “Oh,” Susan snorted, looking offended. Apparently what I said was tantamount to calling her old. “Wow, you are so young,” said Susan, working through her insecurities in front of me. “You know what, run along and catch your flight so you can go play with your X-Box.” The similarly aged disbursement couple in front of us laughed at her remark. If only she knew the trouble that X-Box has caused me.

Thankfully, I did not have to do the OJ to catch my flight since it was hella delayed.

## An Uplifting Lyft Ride

By the time I got back to Boston, I was really done with, well, just about everything. It was about 11 pm. I had been travelling all day and nothing seemed to be going right. I reminded myself that at least the plane had not crashed. It unfortunately didn’t do too much to lift my spirits, though. Because of the emotional taxation the day had put on me, I decided to treat myself to a lyft ride back to my apartment instead of going on public transit. That Lyft ride turned out to be the best part of the day and made up for the shit I had to go through to get to that point.

The driver was named Gabriel. He did not speak English and had recently immigrated from Brazil. I can speak some Portuguese so he spoke to me in his native language and I did my best to translate my thoughts from Spanish and English to Portuguese words. He reminded me of my father. He explained to me how he came to the US a year ago and despite not knowing English and being removed from his family, he knows he made the right choice because his kids could now have access to a wealth of opportunities that you just can’t get in Bolivia and Brazil. I wholeheartedly agree.

My parents came to the US with much the same purpose. And I am so happy they did. I consider myself incredibly blessed to go to Harvard. I know that this was only possible because my parents made the sacrifices of leaving their home country and working insane hours in order for me to stay in the US and be able to focus on my studies. I told Gabriel that and his face lit up because he saw proof before him that there was so much potential for his children to succeed. He told me he was convinced he was making the right decision when he heard my story. I honestly thought this was the nicest thing anyone had ever said to me.

So, all’s well that ends well? On the whole that day sucked, but that little moment in the car reminded me about the common hopes and dreams that unite us all. A man that just wanted the best for his children found reassurance in me that his plight was worth it and I found reassurance in him of the same thing for myself. Sometimes I am reminded of the basic goodness of the human spirit when I really start to doubt it. That man made me realize how lucky I truly am. I wish him twice as much fortune. Now, if only I could stop forgetting stuff in hotels and stressing about the little things!
