---
layout: post
title: Haste Makes Waste
---

I love idioms. I love the way they often employ personification a la "Actions speak louder than words." I love the way they use advice that harkens back to our more agricultural past like in "Don't count your chickens before they hatch." Most of all, I love that they distill wisdom into short, memorable phrases. A prime example: "Haste makes waste."

I was thinking a lot about this phrase today because a series of small misfortunes befell me after I left work. I left in a considerable rush because I am trying to no longer be fat. I will explain that further via stupid syllogism: I left work in a considerable rush because I had a personal training session. I have paid for personal training because I am trying to no longer be fat. Therefore, I left in a considerable rush because I am trying to no longer be fat. The misadventure began almost immediately.

<!--excerpt-->

I have never been good with playing the long game-hell, my medium game could use some work, too. Such was the case when the first of two possible entrances to the gym appeared before me. It was raining considerably hard and the path seemed obstructed through the prism of water that my windshield wipers were no match for. The pressure was especially on since I was running late (about 10 minutes), and I was paying a dude $80 an hour to make me less fat. I knew that f I took the first exit, I could get out of the rain faster, but finding parking in the underground garage it led to was super difficult. On the other hand, if I took the second exit, I could park on the outdoor top floor, where there was certainly parking. I was also certain to be soaked.

If you read the title of this post and hate it when the author shoehorns a theme into a work, you know what choice I made. I find myself in the garage, looking for a space. No luck on the first floor. The second floor is a bust. Third time is not a charm. Suddenly, I am out of floors. I must come out of the garage and then go to the second entrance anyway. Oops. I park, as close to the entrance as I can (still kind of far away) and brace for God's tears. At this point, I am 25% into my personal training session.

I rush into the place past the people passing out towels and into the locker room. I find the first open locker, paying no mind to anything besides the fact that my money was being wasted by the minute. I strip like I was doing it for paper and get into my athletic gear. I take a lamentful glance at myself in the mirror and scurry upstairs to meet my trainer. We then proceed to do approximately 60% of the workouts we had planned. Better than nothing, after all.

When I return to the locker room, shirt damp and spirit deadened from the deadlifts, I remember that I never bothered to memorize which locker I had uses. I take an educated guess that it is one in the pod closest to the entrance to the locker room. The locker room is divided into various pods of around 24 lockers which are opened via a customer-set pin. I start to put in my pin (the same one I use for my phone, for work, and for the bank. This is inadvisable. Don't be like me) into every single one of these lockers. None of these open. I try the next pod over. Then the next and the other. After about 30 minutes, and much inconvenience to about 10 very naked men, I decide to try to retrace my steps. I really feel like where I first looked was where I stored my things, but evidence had not proved me correct. I try this pod again, fingers in pain at this point, and this still does not work. I work my way around the block again. No luck. I decide I need to ask for help. 

I ask the locker room manager for help. I explain to him that I don't remember where I left my stuff. "How don't you remember?" he asked. I responded with a shrug and internal exasperation. "I think it's around here," I say. He then proceeds to tell me that he will only open three lockers. Otherwise, he informs me, I can come back tomorrow when they will have emptied the lockers. If only that were true. My phone and car keys were in the locker. I suppose I could have walked, but I didn't know how to walk home. I decide to take my chances. 

He opens the first locker and it's filled with God knows whose stuff. The second had some very stylish clothes. Definitely not mine. The last locker I have him open just happens to be the first locker I tried. And alas, that is the locker where my stuff was. Something was malfunctioning in the locker or maybe I had set the pin up incorrectly. Either way, I was right the first time and had just wasted an hour of my life. If I had taken the time to remember my locker number, this would not have happened. Please see title of this post for the moral of this story.

